
<p>
Sent: 03 October 2013 09:36<br/>

To: oikos-listan@wallace.teorekol.lu.se<br/>

Subject: [Oikos-listan] Fwd: SPATIO-TEMPORAL ANALYSIS AND BIG DATA PROCESSING USING FREE AND OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE<br/>

<br/>

Hi all,
A great PhD course to expand your ecological toolbox with open-source software. <br/>

I went on this course in Copenhagen in 2010, and it was certainly the best and most useful course I took as a PhD student.<br/>

<br/>

</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">Dag Endresen<br/>

Knowledge Systems Engineer at Global Biodiversity Information Facility<br/>
</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
Dag has endorsed your work as Intensive trainings in Spatial Ecological Modeling at spatial-ecology.net<br/>

</p>

<p>
“<em>Dear stefano,<br/>

I followed the excellent PhD course on Open Source Tools for Spatial Ecology Modeling organized by Stefano Casalegno and Guiseppe Amatulli. <br/>

Thanks for an excellent course! <br/>

I have made valuable use of the new skills I acquired.</em>” <br/>

<br/>

</p>

<h2 class="sectionedit1" id="section">\\</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> …@uah.es&gt;<br/>

Date: 20 January 2012 14:54<br/>

Subject: RE: Satisfactory survey<br/>

To: Giuseppe Amatulli <a href="mailto:&#x67;&#x69;&#x75;&#x73;&#x65;&#x70;&#x70;&#x65;&#x2e;&#x61;&#x6d;&#x61;&#x74;&#x75;&#x6c;&#x6c;&#x69;&#x40;&#x67;&#x6d;&#x61;&#x69;&#x6c;&#x2e;&#x63;&#x6f;&#x6d;" class="mail" title="&#x67;&#x69;&#x75;&#x73;&#x65;&#x70;&#x70;&#x65;&#x2e;&#x61;&#x6d;&#x61;&#x74;&#x75;&#x6c;&#x6c;&#x69;&#x40;&#x67;&#x6d;&#x61;&#x69;&#x6c;&#x2e;&#x63;&#x6f;&#x6d;">&#x67;&#x69;&#x75;&#x73;&#x65;&#x70;&#x70;&#x65;&#x2e;&#x61;&#x6d;&#x61;&#x74;&#x75;&#x6c;&#x6c;&#x69;&#x40;&#x67;&#x6d;&#x61;&#x69;&#x6c;&#x2e;&#x63;&#x6f;&#x6d;</a><br/>

<br/>

<em>Hi Giuseppe,
<br/>

I hope you had a good flight back!
I have already filled in the satisfactory survey and here there are some comments in addition: the course gives the opportunity to get familiar with open source tools. It is very well prepared.  I like that the theory is focus on the main knowledge and the code is taught using examples and exercises. If the course was longer, I would like to do more exercises especially using R and GRASS or a project to face all the steps (preparing data, exploring, modelling, graphing, etc.) but in one week, students should be able to go on by self-learning hopefully.<br/>


Cheers,</em> <br/>

<br/>

<br/>
<hr />
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">…@natgeo.su.se<br/>

19 Dec 2011<br/>

to me, Stefano<br/>

<br/>

<em>Hi Giuseppe and Stefano,<br/>

<br/>

I forwarded the email to the PhD students at my department. I hope you get enough people together. Thanks again for a great course in Copenhagen last year. I&#039;m still on Ubuntu, but mainly only using R from the course. I never really got the hang of GRASS, but I&#039;ve been getting into postGIS recently, which is also pretty cool.<br/>

<br/>

Happy Christmas!</em>
<br/>

–<br/>

PhD Student<br/>

Landscape Ecology<br/>

Department of Physical Geography and Quaternary Geology<br/>

Stockholm University<br/>

<br/>

<br/>

<br/>
<hr />
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">…@lavabit.com<br/>

19 Dec 2011<br/>

to me<br/>

<br/>

<em>Hi Giuseppe,<br/>

<br/>

I have forwarded an recommended this course to a couple of fellow PhD students here in Oslo. Unfortunately the e-mail came a little late for them to participate. I will keep forwarding e-mails of courses in the future.<br/>

<br/>

Good luck with the course and I wish you happy holidays before that!<br/>

<br/>

Cheers,
<br/>

PS! I am still using linux as my main <abbr title="Operating System">OS</abbr>. I am also using GRASS still but I am using R more and more, also for spatial analysis … There is so much you can do in R!</em>
<br/>
<hr />
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">…@gmail.com
<p>
16 Apr 2012<br/>

<br/>

Hello to everybody!
<br/>

Good to know that you (Giuseppe) are well in the north American middle west! Things are moving fast!
<br/>

Thank you for the course, I think with the time we really realize the usefulness of what we learned!
<br/>

</p>
</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
My Linux usage: In my laptop I have Ubuntu (as you know!) and a virtual machine with Windows (for the complex word documents). 
In my PC from the office I have still Windows, the Ubuntu is over a virtual machine (generated with the VirutalBox software). 
Right now I’m going as well into python (plus GDAL and NumPy), as I’m working more with matrices. 
The first thing I just finished, is an application for a friend: it consist in orthorectifying aerial photographs (from an helicopter), 
using the external geometry of the acquisition (the angles, etc.) and the DEM (terrain elevations).
<br/>

Best wishes!
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;\\\\&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:1,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;873-&quot;} -->