
<h2 class="sectionedit1" id="invoking_a_bash_script">Invoking a Bash Script</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">Any collection of bash commands may be stored in a file; a shell script file (usually called namefile.sh ).<br/>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">The collection of bash commands can be written and saved in a text editor (kate).<br/>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">Bash can be invoked to execute the commands in that file by typing sh namefile.sh.<br/>

Example:</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">Open a text editor and write
&lt;code bash&gt;
echo “How many files/folders i have in this directory?”
ls | wc -l
&lt;/code&gt;</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">Save the file in the current directory as <em>myfirstscript.sh</em></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">Run it by typing.
&lt;code bash&gt;
bash myfirstscript.sh
&lt;/code&gt;
Of course myfirstscript.sh can include several commands and can be run recursively.<br/>

Like other programming languages bash has variables and flow control statements: e.g. if-then-else, while, for, goto.<br/>

Moreover it is possible to insert other scripts built up under other software languages.<br/>
</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Invoking a Bash Script&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;invoking_a_bash_script&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:1,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1-886&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="the_use_of_arguments_by_invoking_a_bash_script">The use of arguments by invoking a Bash Script</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Arguments or parameters are variables that can be inserted after “sh myfirstscript” and are are passed to your script.<br/>

The use of arguments has the following syntax:<br/>

<em>bash filename.sh argument1 argument2 argument3 ….</em><br/>

and in the script the arguments are recalled as:<br/>

<em>argument1 = $1</em><br/>

<em>argument2 = $2</em><br/>

…..<br/>

Example:<br/>

</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Open a text editor and write:</div>
</li>
</ol>
<pre class="code bash"><span class="kw3">echo</span> <span class="st0">&quot;use $1&quot;</span>
<span class="kw3">echo</span> <span class="st0">&quot;to create $2&quot;</span> </pre>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Save the file in the current directory as <em>myfirstscript.sh</em></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Run it by typing:</div>
</li>
</ol>
<pre class="code bash"><span class="kw2">bash</span> myfirstscript.sh input.txt output.txt</pre>

<p>
The use of arguments are very useful to create a little script that computes operation that are later recalled in other scripts. A practical example is to create a script called <em>average.sh</em> that calculate the average in a column data using the input.txt file and produces the output.txt file.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;The use of arguments by invoking a Bash Script&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;the_use_of_arguments_by_invoking_a_bash_script&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:2,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;887-&quot;} -->