
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="basic_gdal_ogr_pktools_commands">Basic GDAL/OGR/PKTOOLS Commands</h1>
<div class="level1">

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Basic GDAL/OGR/PKTOOLS Commands" [1-46] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="gdal_commands">GDAL Commands</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Data Directory: /home/user/ost4sem/exercise/geodata_SDM/ <br/>

Script: /home/user/ost4sem/exercise/geodata_SDM/gdal_pktools.sh <br/>

</p>
<pre class="code">cd /home/user/ost4sem/exercise/
wget http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/exercise/geodata_SDM.tar.gz
tar -zxvf geodata_SDM.tar.gz
gedit /home/user/ost4sem/exercise/geodata_SDM/gdal_pktools.sh &amp; </pre>

<p>
Change the directory, and explore the files.
</p>
<pre class="code bash"><span class="kw3">cd</span> <span class="sy0">/</span>home<span class="sy0">/</span>user<span class="sy0">/</span>ost4sem<span class="sy0">/</span>exercise<span class="sy0">/</span>geodata_SDM
<span class="kw2">ls</span> <span class="sy0">*/*</span>.tif  <span class="co0"># list all the files with the extension .tif</span>
gdalinfo vegetation<span class="sy0">/</span>ETmean08-<span class="nu0">11</span>.tif
&nbsp;
<span class="co0"># Visualize the image</span>
&nbsp;
qgis vegetation<span class="sy0">/</span>ETmean08-<span class="nu0">11</span>.tif
openev vegetation<span class="sy0">/</span>ETmean08-<span class="nu0">11</span>.tif</pre>

<p>
Reply to the following questions:<br/>

What is the pixel size?<br/>

How do you get min and max pixel values?<br/>

<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="understand_data_type">Understand data type</h4>
<div class="level4">
<pre class="code">                      Ranges of GDAL data types        Image
GDAL data type	       minimum  	maximum        Size 
Byte  			     0  	    255        39M
UInt16			     0  	 65,535        78M
Int16, CInt16 	       -32,768  	 32,767        78M
UInt32			     0    4,294,967,295        155M  
Int32, CInt32 	-2,147,483,648    2,147,483,647        155M
Float32, CFloat32      -3.4E38           3.4E38        155M
Float64, CFloat64    -1.79E308         1.79E308        309M</pre>

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="understand_nodata_value">Understand NoData Value</h4>
<div class="level4">
<pre class="code bash">gdalinfo <span class="re5">-mm</span> vegetation<span class="sy0">/</span>ETmean08-<span class="nu0">11</span>.tif
gdal_edit.py  -a_nodata <span class="re5">-9999</span> vegetation<span class="sy0">/</span>ETmean08-<span class="nu0">11</span>.tif
gdalinfo <span class="re5">-mm</span> vegetation<span class="sy0">/</span>ETmean08-<span class="nu0">11</span>.tif
gdal_edit.py  -a_nodata -<span class="nu0">339999995214436424907732413799364296704.000</span>    vegetation<span class="sy0">/</span>ETmean08-<span class="nu0">11</span>.tif</pre>

</div>

<h4 id="calculate_minimum_and_maximum_values_for_all_the_images">Calculate minimum and maximum values for all the images</h4>
<div class="level4">
<pre class="code bash"><span class="kw1">for</span> <span class="kw2">file</span> <span class="kw1">in</span> vegetation<span class="sy0">/*</span>.tif ; <span class="kw1">do</span> 
gdalinfo  <span class="re5">-mm</span>  <span class="re1">$file</span>  <span class="co0"># write a bash command to get only min/max values</span>
<span class="kw1">done</span></pre>
<pre class="code bash"><span class="kw1">for</span> <span class="kw2">file</span> <span class="kw1">in</span> vegetation<span class="sy0">/*</span>.tif ; <span class="kw1">do</span> 
pkinfo  <span class="re5">-mm</span> <span class="re5">-i</span> <span class="re1">$file</span> <span class="co0"># write an awk line to to get only min/max values</span>
<span class="kw1">done</span></pre>

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="exercise">Exercise:</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Use one of the gdal commands and try to clip all the images using a square box:<br/>

xmin : 32<br/>

xmax : 34<br/>

ymin : 1<br/>

ymax : 4<br/>

<br/>

As first operation you have to create an empty script and save as .sh. You can call gedit by the <abbr title="Graphical User Interface">GUI</abbr> or run directly in the terminal. You can save the script where you want, but remember the location. 
<br/>

</p>
<pre class="code bash">   gedit cropscript.sh  <span class="sy0">&amp;</span> <span class="co0"># this will create a script in the current directory</span></pre>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">Create a working directory in your home</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">Identify the gdal command going to the gdal Internet site.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">Identify the option of the command to make the clip using the given coordinates .</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">Do a test with one image and open it by openev.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">Create a loop for all the images.
<br/>

Use all the previous examples stored in this wiki.<br/>

All the commands have already been explained - you just need to combine them.<br/>

You should be able to run the script by 
<p>
   bash  cropscript.sh.
</p>
</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "GDAL Commands" [47-2903] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="basic_pktools_commands">Basic PKTOOLS Commands</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Perform a composite (getting the mean)  between two images. 
</p>

</div>

<h5 id="create_a_coefficient_of_variation">Create a Coefficient of variation</h5>
<div class="level5">
<pre class="code"> VEG=/home/user/ost4sem/exercise/geodata_SDM/vegetation
 gdal_calc.py --overwrite  -A $VEG/GPPstdev08-11.tif -B  $VEG/GPPmean08-11.tif \
 --calc=&quot;( A / ( B + 0.000000001 ) )&quot; --outfile=$VEG/GPPcv08-11.tif</pre>

<p>
Check the pkgetmask -min and -max options and use them to create a mask with 0 and 1 value.
</p>

</div>

<h5 id="create_a_a_mask">Create a a mask</h5>
<div class="level5">
<pre class="code"> pkgetmask  -min  0.50  -max  1.1  -i  $VEG/GPPcv08-11.tif  -o $VEG/GPPcv08-11_01.tif</pre>

</div>

<h5 id="change_pixel_resolution_and_create_a_composite">Change pixel resolution and create a composite</h5>
<div class="level5">
<pre class="code"> INDIR=/home/user/ost4sem/exercise/geodata_SDM/LST
 # looping trough the images
 for file in $INDIR/LST_MOYDmax_month?.tif $INDIR/LST_MOYDmax_month??.tif; do 
     filename=$(basename $file .tif )
     gdalwarp -te 29 -1 35.0000000048 4.000000004 -tr 0.008333333340000 0.008333333340000 -co COMPRESS=LZW -co ZLEVEL=9 $file $INDIR/${filename}_crop.tif 
 done </pre>
<pre class="code"> # Calculate mean and standard deviation with several images
 pkcomposite $(for file in $INDIR/LST_MOYDmax_month*_crop.tif ; do echo -i $file ;  done ) -cr mean  -srcnodata -9999 -dstnodata -9999 -co  COMPRESS=LZW -co ZLEVEL=9 -o $INDIR/LST_MOYDmax_monthMean_crop.tif
 pkcomposite $(for file in $INDIR/LST_MOYDmax_month*_crop.tif ; do echo -i $file ;  done ) -cr stdev  -srcnodata -9999 -dstnodata -9999 -co  COMPRESS=LZW -co ZLEVEL=9 -o $INDIR/LST_MOYDmax_monthStdev_crop.tif</pre>
<pre class="code">for file in $INDIR/*_crop.tif ; do 
filename=$(basename $file .tif )
pkfilter -co COMPRESS=LZW -ot Float32-dx 20 -dy 20 -f mean -d 20 -i $INDIR/${filename}.tif  -o $INDIR/${filename}_20p.tif 
done 
 </pre>

<p>
You can find more example <a href="http://spatial-ecology.net/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=wiki:pk_tools" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://spatial-ecology.net/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=wiki:pk_tools" rel="nofollow noopener"> here </a> or the in official <a href="http://pktools.nongnu.org/html/md_doc_apps.html#available_tools" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://pktools.nongnu.org/html/md_doc_apps.html#available_tools" rel="nofollow noopener"> pktools page  </a>
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Basic PKTOOLS Commands" [2904-] -->