
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="registration_fees">Registration Fees</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Registration is on a first come, first served basis and it will be closed when it reaches 25 participants. Therefore, we encourage participant to register <abbr title="As soon as possible">ASAP</abbr>. A waiting list will be establish in case of over-passing the 25 participants.<br/>

The course Registration Fee includes: 42 hours class training, student supervision, course auditing, course material within a USB flash drive inclusive of software, lectures and sample data, six lunch bags (with <a href="https://www.google.com/search?q=focaccia+mozzarella+calzone&amp;client=ubuntu&amp;hs=H8T&amp;channel=fs&amp;biw=1472&amp;bih=661&amp;source=lnms&amp;tbm=isch&amp;sa=X&amp;ei=uuzOVMLuK4W_ggS8oYTIBQ&amp;ved=0CAYQ_AUoAQ#channel=fs&amp;tbm=isch&amp;q=focaccia+mozzarella+" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="https://www.google.com/search?q=focaccia+mozzarella+calzone&amp;client=ubuntu&amp;hs=H8T&amp;channel=fs&amp;biw=1472&amp;bih=661&amp;source=lnms&amp;tbm=isch&amp;sa=X&amp;ei=uuzOVMLuK4W_ggS8oYTIBQ&amp;ved=0CAYQ_AUoAQ#channel=fs&amp;tbm=isch&amp;q=focaccia+mozzarella+" rel="nofollow noopener"> local product</a> and a social dinner (Friday night). <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/European_Credit_Transfer_and_Accumulation_System" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/European_Credit_Transfer_and_Accumulation_System" rel="nofollow noopener"> ECTA credits </a> and/ or attendance certificate can be requested.<br/>

<br/>

All participants have to pay a registration fee in accordance with the location of their institution (see the table below). The registration fee can be payed by a bank transfer to the following bank account:<br/>

<br/>

<strong>Giuseppe Amatulli</strong><br/>

<strong>IBAN ES4400730100520449294647</strong><br/>

<strong>SWIFT OPENESMM</strong><br/>

<strong><a href="http://www.OPENBANK.es" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.OPENBANK.es" rel="nofollow noopener">www.OPENBANK.es</a></strong><br/>

<br/>

In order to get approved the registration, the participant have to fill-in the  <a href="/doku.php?id=wiki:materaregist_quest" class="wikilink1" title="wiki:materaregist_quest"> following questionnaire</a> and send an e-mail to giuseppe.amatulli@gmail.com with their name, affiliation, questionnaire-name, and the bank transfer confirmation.<br/>

<br/>

Overview of Conference fee.<br/>

</p>
<div class="table sectionedit2"><table class="inline">
	<tr class="row0">
		<td class="col0"> Fees </td><td class="col1"> Institution/State  (based on <a href="http://data.worldbank.org/indicator/NY.GDP.PCAP.CD?order=wbapi_data_value_2013+wbapi_data_value+wbapi_data_value-last&amp;sort=desc" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://data.worldbank.org/indicator/NY.GDP.PCAP.CD?order=wbapi_data_value_2013+wbapi_data_value+wbapi_data_value-last&amp;sort=desc" rel="nofollow noopener"> per capita gross domestic product ranking list</a>) </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row1">
		<td class="col0">350 Euro </td><td class="col1"> EU institution &amp; International Organizations - Luxembourg - Norway - Switzerland - Denmark - Ireland - Austria - The Netherlands - Belgium - France - Sweden - Finland - Germany - Iceland - United Kingdom - Malta - other countries </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row2">
		<td class="col0 leftalign"> 300 Euro  </td><td class="col1"> Italy -  Spain - Greece - Cyprus - Czech Republic -  Slovakia - Estonia - Slovenia - Lithuania - Poland - Hungary - Portugal - Latvia </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row3">
		<td class="col0">250 Euro </td><td class="col1"> <strong>University of Basilicata</strong>* - Croatia -  Bulgaria - Turkey - Romania - Belarus - Serbia - Albania - Bosnia - Republic of Macedonia - Ukraine - Moldova - Kosovo -  Montenegro - other developing countries </td>
	</tr>
</table></div>
<!-- EDIT2 TABLE [1537-2372] -->
<p>
<br/>

* Students from the University of Basilicata benefit of lowest fees rate and 6 places reserved as compensation for hosting the event.
</p>

</div>

<h5 id="re-found_policy">Re-found policy</h5>
<div class="level5">

<p>
Written notification of registration cancellation must be e-mailed to giuseppe.amatulli@gmail.com. If registration cancellation is received by April 1, 2015, registrant will receive a refund of registration fee less a $100 processing fee. We will retain 250€ for cancellation notice submitted after April 1, 2015 unless candidates from waiting list accept to replace withdrawal candidates. 
</p>

</div>
