
<h4 id="refereed_journal_papers">Refereed Journal Papers</h4>
<div class="level4">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <strong>Amatulli</strong>, G, A. Camia, San-Miguel-Ayanz J. (2013). <a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/giuseppe/publications/STOTEN14462.pdf" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/giuseppe/publications/STOTEN14462.pdf" rel="nofollow noopener"> Estimating future burned area under changing climate in the EU-Mediterranean countries using machine learning techniques.</a> Science of The Total Environment</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Casalegno, S., <strong>Amatulli</strong>, G., Bastrup-Birk, A., Houston Durrant, T., Pekkarinen, A., (2011). <a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/giuseppe/publications/art.pdf" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/giuseppe/publications/art.pdf" rel="nofollow noopener"> Modelling and mapping the suitability of European forest formations at 1-km resolution</a>.  European Journal of Forest Research.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Casalegno S., G. <strong>Amatulli</strong>, A. Camia, A. Nelson, A. Pekkarinen (2009).<a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/giuseppe/publications/1-s2.0-S0378112709007257-main.pdf" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/giuseppe/publications/1-s2.0-S0378112709007257-main.pdf" rel="nofollow noopener"> Vulnerability of Pinus cembra L. in the Alps and the Carpathian mountains under present and future climates.</a> Forest Ecology and Management, 259(4), 750-761 </div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Lavalle, C,. Micale, F., Lazar C., Conte, C., Genovese, G., Camia, A., Durrant Houston T., <strong>Amatulli</strong> G., Hiederer R. (2009)Climate change in Europe. 3. <a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/giuseppe/publications/326_lavalle_ea2009.pdf" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/giuseppe/publications/326_lavalle_ea2009.pdf" rel="nofollow noopener"> Impact on agriculture and forestry. A review.</a>  Agronomy for sustainable development, 29(3), 433-446.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <strong>Amatulli</strong> G., Pérez-Cabello F., Juan de la Riva J. (2007). <a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/giuseppe/publications/1-s2.0-S0304380006003772-main.pdf" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/giuseppe/publications/1-s2.0-S0304380006003772-main.pdf" rel="nofollow noopener"> Mapping lightning/human-caused wildfires occurrence under ignition point location uncertainty.</a> Ecological Modelling 200, 321–333.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Telesca L., <strong>Amatulli</strong> G., Lasaponara R., Lovallo M., Rodrigues M. J., (2007). <a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/giuseppe/publications/175.pdf" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/giuseppe/publications/175.pdf" rel="nofollow noopener"> Space–time fractal properties of the forest-fire series in central Italy.</a> Communications in Nonlinear Science and Numerical Simulation 12, 1326–1333.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Telesca L., <strong>Amatulli</strong> G., Lasaponara R., Lovallo M., Santulli A., (2007). <a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/giuseppe/publications/174.pdf" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/giuseppe/publications/174.pdf" rel="nofollow noopener">  Identifying spatial clustering properties of the 1997-2003 Liguria (Northern Italy) forest-fire sequence.</a> Chaos Solitons Fractals 32 (4), 1364-1370.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <strong>Amatulli</strong> G., Trombetti M., Rodrigues M. J., Lovreglio R., (2006). <a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/giuseppe/publications/jgrg78.pdf" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/giuseppe/publications/jgrg78.pdf" rel="nofollow noopener"> Assessing long-term fire risk at local scale by means of decision tree technique.</a> Journal of Geophysical Research 111, G04S05</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Telesca L., <strong>Amatulli</strong> G., Lasaponara R., Lovallo M., Santulli A., (2005). <a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/giuseppe/publications/1-s2.0-S0304380005000177-main.pdf" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/giuseppe/publications/1-s2.0-S0304380005000177-main.pdf" rel="nofollow noopener">  Time-scaling propierties in forest-fire sequences observed in Gargano area (southern Italy)</a>. Ecological Modelling 185, 531–544.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Trombetti M., de Bruin S., <strong>Amatulli</strong> G., (2005). Mapping burnt areas in the Northern Mediterranean basin using MODIS images through a Classification Tree approach. Atti della fondazione Giorgio Ronchi 15 (4), 619-626. </div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>

<h4 id="book_chapters">Book Chapters</h4>
<div class="level4">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> J. San-Miguel-Ayanz, E. Schulte, G. Schmuck, A. Camia, P. Strobl, G. Liberta, C. Giovando, R. Boca, F. Sedano, P. Kempeneers, D. McInerney, C. Withmore, S. Santos de Oliveira, M. Rodrigues, T. Durrant, P. Corti, F. Oehler, L. Vilar,  G. <strong>Amatulli</strong> (2012). <a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/giuseppe/publications/InTech-Comprehensive_monitoring_of_wildfires_in_europe_the_european_forest_fire_information_system_effis_.pdf" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/giuseppe/publications/InTech-Comprehensive_monitoring_of_wildfires_in_europe_the_european_forest_fire_information_system_effis_.pdf" rel="nofollow noopener"> Comprehensive Monitoring of Wildfires in Europe: The European Forest Fire Information System (EFFIS)</a>.  Approaches to Managing Disaster - Assessing Hazards, Emergencies and Disaster Impacts. Tiefenbacher J. (Editor)   InTech. pp 87-108 </div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Camia, A., <strong>Amatulli</strong>, G., (2009). <a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/giuseppe/publications/325_camia_ea2009.pdf" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/giuseppe/publications/325_camia_ea2009.pdf" rel="nofollow noopener"> Weather factors and fire danger in the Mediterranean </a>.  In: Chuvieco E, editor. Earth Observation of Wildland Fires in Mediterranean Ecosystems. Berlin: Springer-Verlag; p. 71-82.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>

<h4 id="refereed_conference_papers">Refereed Conference Papers</h4>
<div class="level4">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Camia, A., <strong>Amatulli</strong>, G. (2010). Climatology of FWI over Europe: fire danger anomalies and index percentile rankings. In: Viegas D.X. (Ed.) Proceedings of the VI International Conference on Forest Fire Research, ADAI/CEIF, Coimbra.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <strong>Amatulli</strong> G, Camia A, San-Miguel-Ayanz J. Projecting Future Burnt Area in the EU-Mediterranean Countries under IPCC SRES A2/B2 Climate Change Scenarios. In Conference Proceedings: E.Chuvieco and R.Lasaponara, editor. Proceedings of the VII International EARSeL Workshop - Advances on Remote Sensing and GIS applications in Forest Fire Management. Potenza (Italy): Il Segno; 2009. p. 33-38.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Camia A., <strong>Amatulli</strong> G., Barbosa P., San-Miguel-Ayanz J., (2007) - Fire Danger Forecast in the European Forest Fire Information System (EFFIS). In: Proc. Wildfire2007 IV International Wildland Fire Conference. Seville, Spain 13-17 May.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <strong>Amatulli</strong>, G. and Camia, A., (2007). Exploring the relationships of fire occurrence variables by means of CART and MARS models. Wildfire2007 IV International Wildland Fire Conference, Sevilla, Spain. 13-17 May.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <strong>Amatulli</strong>, G., Peréz-Cabello, F., Camia, A. and de la Riva, J., (2007). Predicting the occurrence of lighting/human-caused wildfires using advanced techniques of data mining In: I. Gitas and C. Carmona-Moreno (Editor), Proceedings of the 6th International Workshop on Remote Sensing and GIS Applications to Forest Fire Management: Fire Effects Assessment, Thessaloniki, Greece, pp. 112-115.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Casalegno, S., <strong>Amatulli</strong>, G., Bastrup-Birk, A., Houston, T., (2007). Modelling Current and Future Distribution of European Forest Categories. Proceedings of the 6th European Conference on Ecological Modelling: Challenges for ecological modelling in a changing world: Global Changes, Sustainability and Ecosystem Based Management. November 27-30, 2007. Trieste, Italy.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Casalegno S., <strong>Amatulli</strong> G., Bastrup-Birk A., Houston T., (2007). Modelling Current and Future Distribution of European Forest Categories. Proceedings of the 6th European Conference on Ecological Modelling: Challenges for ecological modelling in a changing world: Global Changes, Sustainability and Ecosystem Based Management. Trieste - Italy, 27-30th November, 2007.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">Camia A., Barbosa P., <strong>Amatulli</strong> G., San-Miguel-Ayanz J., (2006) - Fire Danger Rating in the European Forest Fire Information System (EFFIS): Current Developments. Forest Ecology and Management, 234 (Supplement 1). Elsevier</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">Camia, A., Barbosa, P., <strong>Amatulli</strong>, G., San-Miguel-Ayanz, J., (2006). Fire danger rating in the European Forest Fire Information System (EFFIS): current developments, Proceedings of the 5th International Conference on Forest Fire Research, 27-30 Figueira da Foz, Portugal, Elsevier Pub. ISSN 0378-1127.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"><strong>Amatulli</strong> G., Rodrigues M. J., Trombetti M., Lovreglio R., (2005) Assessing long-term fire risk at local area by means of decision tree technique; assist fire managers in Decision Support System. 5th International Workshop on Remote Sensing and GIS Applications to Forest Fire Management: Fire Effects Assessment.  Zaragoza, Spain, 16-18th June, 2005<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <strong>Amatulli</strong> G., Trombetti M., Peréz-Cabello F., (2005). Using decision tree analysis to assess variable feature selection for fuel model mapping. 5th International Workshop on Remote Sensing and GIS Applications to Forest Fire Management: Fire Effects Assessment. Zaragoza, Spain, 16-18th June, 2005.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <strong>Amatulli</strong> G., Rodrigues M., Lovreglio R., (2005). Mapping forest fire occurrence at national  level - Assessing fire density by means of the Adaptive Kernel Density Technique. 5th International Workshop on Remote Sensing and GIS Applications to Forest Fire Management: Fire Effects Assessment. Zaragoza, Spain, 16-18th June, 2005.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Trombetti M., <strong>Amatulli</strong> G., Lasaponara R., (2005). The use of multi-temporal MODIS data for burnt area detection in the Italian Peninsula through a classification tree approach. 25th EARSeL Symposium Global Developments in Environmental Earth Observation from Space. Porto, Portugal, 6-11th June, 2005.<br/>
</div>
</li>
</ul>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"><strong>Amatulli</strong> G., Lovreglio R., Pérez-Cabello F., Leone V. (2004). Estimating fire ignition points density by the adaptive kernel method - “II International Symposium on Fire Economics, Planning and Policy: A Global Vision”- Cordoba, Spain, 19-22nd April, 2004.<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <strong>Amatulli</strong> G., de Bruin S., Trombetti M. (2004). Fuel model mapping by classification tree analysis using Landsat 7 ETM+ and ancillary data.  “2004 IEEE GOLD Remote Sensing Conference” – Napoli, Italy, 13-14th May, 2004</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Trombetti M., de Bruin S., <strong>Amatulli</strong> G., (2004). Mapping burnt areas in the Northern Mediterranean basin using MODIS images through a Classification Tree approach. “2004 IEEE GOLD Remote Sensing Conference” Atti della Fondazione Giorgio Ronchi, LX, 4,621, Arcetri-Firenze: La Fondazione</div>
</li>
</ul>
</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>

<h4 id="scientific_and_technical_reports">Scientific and Technical Reports</h4>
<div class="level4">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">Camia A, San-Miguel-Ayanz J, Oehler F, Santos De Oliveira S, Durrant Houston T, Kucera J, Boca R, Whitmore C, Giovando C, Amatulli G, Liberta<code> G, Schmuck G, Schulte E, Bucki M. Forest Fires in Europe 2008. EUR 23971 EN. Luxembourg (Luxembourg): OPOCE; 2009.

  * Camia A, San-Miguel-Ayanz J, Kucera J, Liberta</code> G, Amatulli G, Boca R, Giovando C, Whitmore C. (2008). The European Forest Fire Information System Newsletter. EUR 23514 EN. Luxembourg (Luxembourg).
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">Camia, A., <strong>Amatulli</strong>, G., San-Miguel-Ayanz, J., 2008. Past and future trends of forest fire danger in Europe. EUR Technical Report (EUR 23124).</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">Lavalle, C,. Micale, F., Lazar C., Conte, C., Genovese, G., Camia, A., Durrant Houston T., <strong>Amatulli</strong> G., Hiederer R. (2008) Impacts of Europe&#039;s changing climate - 2008 indicator-based assessment – Agriculture and forest. EEA Report No 4/2008.
<br/>

</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">Barbosa, P., <strong>Amatulli</strong>, G., Boca, R., Camia, A., Kucera, J., and Liberta, G., (2007) - The European Forest Fire Information Newsletter. Issue 2007 (2) - JRC40211</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">Barbosa, P., <strong>Amatulli</strong>, G., Boca, R., Camia, A., Kucera, J., and Liberta, G., (2007)- The European Forest Fire Information System Newsletter. Issue 2007 (1) - JRC40210<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Barbosa, P., <strong>Amatulli</strong>, G., Boca, R., Camia, A., San-Miguel-Ayanz, J., and Schmuck, G. (2007), - Forest Fires in Europe 2006 - EUR 22931 EN, JRC37598 </div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>

<h4 id="national_journal_papers">National Journal Papers</h4>
<div class="level4">
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"><strong>Amatulli</strong> G., Lovreglio R., Leone V. (2005). Analisi geo-statistiche per la valutazione della distribuzione degli incendi nello spazio rurale: applicazione dell’adaptive kernel density estimation  al territorio del  Parco Nazionale del Gargano. Italia Forestale e Montana, n. 1. 85-97</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">Montenegro V., <strong>Amatulli</strong> G. (2001). Capreolus capreolus nella grotta del Tasso Selvaggio. Bollettino del Gruppo Puglia Grotte, Castellana Grotte (BA) 1996, pp. 22 - 26.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"><strong>Amatulli</strong> G. Marchioni V. (2001). Esempi di inerbimento in Puglia e Basilicata. Terra Pugliese, n. 3.<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <strong>Amatulli</strong> G. (2001). Alburni: ancora nuove scoperte, Metodologie organizzative per una battuta esplorativa. Bollettino del Gruppo Puglia Grotte, Castellana Grotte (BA) 1996, 17 - 21.</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> <strong>Amatulli</strong> G., Didonna F. (1996). Alcuni aspetti naturalistici del Massiccio del Kulmakut, Elementi floro faunistici. Bollettino del Gruppo Puglia Grotte, Castellana Grotte (BA) 1996, pp. 55-57.</div>
</li>
</ul>
</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
