
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="reprojection_of_data_using_quantum_gis">Reprojection of data using Quantum GIS</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Reprojections are very complex mathematical and geometrical computations. Gdal / ogr libraries are used in Qgis to carry out such data processing.<br/>

We recommend before starting with reprojections to acquire the following information
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> The source projection of the input spatial data </div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> The target projection of the output spatial data </div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
Spatial data projections have standardized codes or parameters. By using these codes/parameter we can be sure that the software is selecting the exact reprojection process that we are carrying out. The Geodetic Parameter Registry code EPSG or the PROJ.4 parameters provide such standardized nomenclature and are available on Qgis.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Reprojection of data using Quantum GIS" [1-726] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="raster_data_reprojections">Raster data reprojections</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
We are going to re-project The Global Land Cover map clipped on Tanzania from the WGS to UTM projections.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Load the ../Data/Raster/GLC2000/GLC2000tanzania.tif file and look at the metadata to find out which is the source projection.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Main Qgis menu &gt; Layer &gt; Properties &gt; Metadata.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
The source data has the following parameters: <em>+proj=longlat +ellps=WGS84 +datum=WGS84 +no_defs</em>. This corresponds to the <em>EPSG:4326</em> code.<br/>

We would like to re-project the GLC2000tanzania.tif raster map to the Universe Transverse Mercator: <em>+proj=utm +zone=35 +south +a=6378249.145 +b=6356514.870 +units=m +towgs84=-160,-6,-302</em>.
<br/>

</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Select from the main Qgis menu &gt; Raster &gt; Warp <br/>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Select the GLC2000tanzania.tif as input file<br/>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Browse to your favourite output folder and write a name for the target map in the <em>output file</em> (ex.: GLC2000tanzaniaUTM.tif)</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<br/>

</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> In the source SRS write: <em>+proj=longlat +ellps=WGS84 +datum=WGS84 +no defs</em></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> In the target SRS write: <em>+proj=utm +zone=35 +south +a=6378249.145 +b=6356514.870 +units=m +towgs84=-160,-6,-302</em> and click ok.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<div class="notetip">In the lower part of the Qgis raster warp window you can see the Gdal codes used to perform the reprojection. You can copy the code and paste it on a bash script for producing loops for multiple data reprojections. In our exercise the Gdal code is shown below:
<br/>

<em>gdalwarp -s<em>srs “+proj=longlat +ellps=WGS84 +datum=WGS84 +no</em>defs” -t<em>srs “+proj=utm +zone=35 +south +a=6378249.145 +b=6356514.870 +units=m +towgs84=-160,-6,-302” -of GTiff<br/>

~/ost4sem/exercise/basic</em>qgis/data/raster/GLC2000/GLC2000<em>tanzania ~/ost4sem/exercise/basic</em>qgis/data/raster/GLC2000/ GLC2000_tanzaniaUTM</em><br/>


</div>
<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Raster data reprojections" [727-2455] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="vector_data_re-projections">Vector data re-projections</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
The procedure used we just used for raster data can be also applied for vector datausing the ogr plugin and selecting from the Qgis main menu &gt; vector &gt; Data Management Tools &gt; Export to new projection.<br/>

</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Vector data re-projections" [2456-] -->