
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="gwmodel_r_package">GWmodel R package</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Dr. <a href="https://www.rothamsted.ac.uk/our-people/paul-harris" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="https://www.rothamsted.ac.uk/our-people/paul-harris" rel="nofollow noopener"> Paul Harris</a>, <a href="https://www.rothamsted.ac.uk/" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="https://www.rothamsted.ac.uk/" rel="nofollow noopener"> Rothamsted research</a>, presenting <strong>Modelling Spatial Heterogeneity with Geographically Weighted Models</strong>.
</p>

<p>
In GWmodel, we introduce techniques from a particular branch of spatial statistics,termed geographically-weighted (GW) models.<br/>

GW models suit situations when data are not described well by some global model, but where there are spatial regions where a suitably localised calibration provides a better description. <br/>

GWmodel includes functions to calibrate GW summary statistics, GW principal components analysis, GW discriminant analysis and various forms of GW regression; some of which are provided in basic and robust (outlier resistant) forms.<br/>

</p>

<p>
Author : Binbin Lu, Paul Harris, Martin Charlton, Chris Brunsdon, Tomoki Nakaya, Isabella Gollini.]
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"><a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/webinar/PaulHgwmodel/GWmodel_Overview_PH_v1.pdf" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/webinar/PaulHgwmodel/GWmodel_Overview_PH_v1.pdf" rel="nofollow noopener"> Modelling Spatial Heterogeneity with Geographically Weighted Models</a> Dr. Paul Harris</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"><a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/webinar/PaulHgwmodel/GWmodel.pdf" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/webinar/PaulHgwmodel/GWmodel.pdf" rel="nofollow noopener"> GW model package R documentation</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"><a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/webinar/PaulHgwmodel/2015Gollini_GWmodelJSS.pdf" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/webinar/PaulHgwmodel/2015Gollini_GWmodelJSS.pdf" rel="nofollow noopener"> Gollini et al. 2015 </a> Journal of Statistical Software - bibliographic reference.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"><a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/webinar/PaulHgwmodel/2014Lu_GWmodelGSIS.pdf" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/webinar/PaulHgwmodel/2014Lu_GWmodelGSIS.pdf" rel="nofollow noopener"> Lu et al. 2014 </a> Geospatial Information Science - bibliographic reference.
</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
