
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="basic_gdal_and_ogr_script">Basic GDAL and OGR script</h1>
<div class="level1">

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Basic GDAL and OGR script" [1-39] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="read_and_manipulate_image_metadata">Read and Manipulate image metadata</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Exercise:<br/>

Script: open by kate <a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/exercise/basic_adv_gdalogr/basic_gdalogr.sh" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/exercise/basic_adv_gdalogr/basic_gdalogr.sh" rel="nofollow noopener"> ~/ost4sem/exercise/basic_adv_gdalogr/basic_gdalogr.sh </a><br/>

Directory: ~/ost4sem/exercise/basic_adv_gdalogr
<br/>

</p>
<pre class="code bash">gedit ~<span class="sy0">/</span>ost4sem<span class="sy0">/</span>exercise<span class="sy0">/</span>basic_adv_gdalogr<span class="sy0">/</span>basic_gdalogr.sh <span class="sy0">&amp;</span></pre>

<p>
Change the directory, see the image input.tif with openev, run gdalinfo and return to the questions: 
</p>
<pre class="code bash"><span class="kw3">cd</span> ~<span class="sy0">/</span>ost4sem<span class="sy0">/</span>exercise<span class="sy0">/</span>basic_adv_gdalogr
openev input.tif
gdalinfo input.tif</pre>

<p>
What is the pixel size?<br/>

How do you get min and max pixel values?<br/>

The image has no information on a projection. <br/>

From the pixel values and from the boundary I can understand that it is in lat-long degree (WGS84).<br/>

Let&#039;s apply a projection using gdal_warp<br/>

</p>
<pre class="code bash">gdal_translate <span class="re5">-co</span> <span class="re2">COMPRESS</span>=DEFLATE <span class="re5">-co</span> <span class="re2">ZLEVEL</span>=<span class="nu0">9</span> -a_srs EPSG:<span class="nu0">4326</span>  input.tif input_proj.tif
<span class="co0"># or you can also use gdalwarp</span>
gdalwarp <span class="re5">-co</span> <span class="re2">COMPRESS</span>=DEFLATE <span class="re5">-co</span> <span class="re2">ZLEVEL</span>=<span class="nu0">9</span>  -t_srs EPSG:<span class="nu0">4326</span>  -s_srs EPSG:<span class="nu0">4326</span>  input.tif input_proj.tif
gdalinfo input_proj.tif</pre>

<p>
Calculate minimum and maximum values for all the images: 
</p>
<pre class="code bash"><span class="kw3">cd</span> ~<span class="sy0">/</span>ost4sem<span class="sy0">/</span>exercise<span class="sy0">/</span>basic_adv_gdalogr<span class="sy0">/</span>fagus_sylvatica
<span class="kw1">for</span> <span class="kw2">file</span> <span class="kw1">in</span> <span class="sy0">*</span>.tif ; <span class="kw1">do</span> 
gdalinfo  <span class="re5">-mm</span>  <span class="re1">$file</span> <span class="sy0">|</span> <span class="kw2">grep</span> <span class="st0">&quot;Computed Min/Max&quot;</span> 
<span class="kw1">done</span></pre>

<p>
Exercise:<br/>

Use one of the gdal commands and try to clip all the images using a square box with lat &amp;lon that you like.<br/>

<br/>

</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Open gedit and save the the script with the extension .sh</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Create a working directory following this <a href="/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=wiki:createdirbash" class="wikilink1" title="wiki:createdirbash">procedure</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Copy the ~/ost4sem/exercise/basic_adv_gdalogr/fagus_sylvatica/*.tif in the $INDIR</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Identify the gdal command going to the gdal internet site</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Identify the option of the command to make the clip.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Identify the square box coordinates using openev.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Do a test with one image. Open it by openev.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Create a loop for all the images.</div>
</li>
</ol>

<p>
Use all the previous examples stored in this wiki. All the commands have already been explained - you just need to combine them.<br/>

Use the $OUTDIR $INDIR varibles to define the directories of the files.
Write comments and explanation of the commands.
Your script should be able to be run the script by sh namescript.sh
<br/>

<br/>

</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Read and Manipulate image metadata" [40-2287] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="understand_data_type">Understand data type</h2>
<div class="level2">
<pre class="code">                      Ranges of GDAL data types        Image
GDAL data type	       minimum  	maximum        Size 
Byte  			     0  	    255        39M
UInt16			     0  	 65,535        78M
Int16, CInt16 	       -32,768  	 32,767        78M
UInt32			     0    4,294,967,295        155M  
Int32, CInt32 	-2,147,483,648    2,147,483,647        155M
Float32, CFloat32      -3.4E38           3.4E38        155M
Float64, CFloat64    -1.79E308         1.79E308        309M</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Understand data type" [2288-2808] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="from_image_to_text_and_from_txt_to_image">From Image to text and from txt to image</h2>
<div class="level2">
<pre class="code bash"><span class="kw3">cd</span> ~<span class="sy0">/</span>ost4sem<span class="sy0">/</span>exercise<span class="sy0">/</span>basic_adv_gdalogr
gdal_translate <span class="re5">-of</span>  XYZ   input.tif  output.txt
<span class="kw2">awk</span> <span class="st_h">'{if ($3&gt;0.01 &amp;&amp; $3&lt;0.9) {print $1,$2,50 } else {print}}'</span> output.txt <span class="sy0">&gt;</span> output_change.txt
gdal_translate output_change.txt output_change.tif </pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "From Image to text and from txt to image" [2809-3116] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit5" id="the_use_of_vrt_to_stack_images_and_tiling">The use of VRT to stack images and Tiling</h2>
<div class="level2">
<pre class="code">gdalbuildvrt -overwrite -separate   stack.vrt   20?0_TSSP_IP-ENS-A2-SP20_43023435.tif
gdal_translate  -srcwin 0       0 1670 2015   stack.vrt     stack_UL.tif
gdal_translate  -srcwin 0    2015 1670 2015   stack.vrt     stack_UR.tif
gdal_translate  -srcwin 1670    0 1670 2015   stack.vrt     stack_LL.tif
gdal_translate  -srcwin 1670 2015 1670 2015   stack.vrt     stack_LR.tif</pre>

<p>
Use a stack vrt to build up tailed VRT
</p>
<pre class="code">gdalbuildvrt -overwrite -te  4302000 3435000 5972000 5450000   stack_LL.vrt  stack.vrt</pre>

<p>
Recompose the image 
</p>
<pre class="code">gdalbuildvrt -overwrite mosaic.vrt stack_UL.tif stack_UR.tif stack_LL.tif stack_LR.tif
gdal_translate mosaic.vrt mosaic.tif</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT5 SECTION "The use of VRT to stack images and Tiling" [3117-3843] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit6" id="merge_images">Merge Images</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Example:<br/>

Merge different ASTER dem and change the projection.
</p>
<pre class="code bash"><span class="co0"># merge the tiles </span>
gdal_merge.py  <span class="re5">-o</span> ASTGTM_merge<span class="sy0">/</span>ASTGTM_dem_wgs84.tif  <span class="sy0">*/</span>ASTGTM_<span class="sy0">*</span>_dem.tif
<span class="co0"># change the projection</span>
gdalwarp <span class="re5">-co</span> <span class="st0">&quot;COMPRESS=LZW&quot;</span> -t_srs <span class="st0">&quot;+proj=utm +zone=36 +south +a=6378249.145 +b=6356514.870 +units=m +towgs84=-160,-6,-302&quot;</span> ASTGTM_merge<span class="sy0">/</span>ASTGTM_dem_wgs84.tif ASTGTM_merge<span class="sy0">/</span>tmp.tif
<span class="co0"># compress the file </span>
gdal_translate <span class="re5">-co</span> <span class="st0">&quot;COMPRESS=LZW&quot;</span>   ASTGTM_merge<span class="sy0">/</span>tmp.tif  ASTGTM_merge<span class="sy0">/</span>ASTGTM_dem_tz36.tif 
<span class="co0"># remove intermediate file</span>
<span class="kw2">rm</span> ASTGTM_merge<span class="sy0">/</span>tmp.tif ASTGTM_merge<span class="sy0">/</span>ASTGTM_dem_wgs84.tif</pre>

<p>
open it by openev
</p>
<pre class="code"> openev ASTGTM_merge/ASTGTM_dem_tz36.tif</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT6 SECTION "Merge Images" [3844-4510] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit7" id="vector_manipulation_with_ogr">Vector manipulation with OGR</h2>
<div class="level2">

</div>

<h5 id="ogrinfo_programme">ogrinfo programme</h5>
<div class="level5">
<pre class="code">ogrinfo -al    poly_fr_10poly.sh
ogrinfo -al -geom=NO    poly_fr_10poly.shp

# select a field 

ogrinfo -al -geom=NO    poly_fr_10poly.shp | grep id</pre>

</div>

<h5 id="look_at_a_different_file">Look at a different file</h5>
<div class="level5">
<pre class="code bash"><span class="kw3">cd</span> ~<span class="sy0">/</span>ost4sem<span class="sy0">/</span>exercise<span class="sy0">/</span>KenyaGIS
&nbsp;
ogrinfo <span class="re5">-al</span> County.shp
ogrinfo <span class="re5">-al</span> County.shp <span class="sy0">|</span> <span class="kw2">head</span> <span class="re5">-30</span>
ogrinfo <span class="re5">-al</span> County.shp <span class="sy0">|</span> <span class="kw2">head</span> <span class="re5">-41</span></pre>

</div>

<h5 id="process_vector_file_with_ogr2ogr_and_ogrinfo">Process vector file with ogr2ogr and ogrinfo</h5>
<div class="level5">
<pre class="code bash"><span class="re2">INPUT</span>=~<span class="sy0">/</span>ost4sem<span class="sy0">/</span>exercise<span class="sy0">/</span>KenyaGIS
&nbsp;
ogr2ogr  <span class="re5">-f</span> <span class="st0">&quot;GML&quot;</span> -s_srs EPSG:<span class="nu0">4326</span>  -t_srs EPSG:<span class="nu0">3857</span> <span class="re5">-select</span> COUNTY  <span class="re5">-where</span> <span class="st0">&quot;COUNTY = 'Isiolo'&quot;</span>  <span class="sy0">/</span>tmp<span class="sy0">/</span>Isiolo.gml  <span class="re1">$INPUT</span><span class="sy0">/</span>County.shp
&nbsp;
<span class="co0"># Extract bounding box for different county and overall county in Kenya</span>
ogrinfo <span class="re5">-al</span> County.shp <span class="sy0">|</span> <span class="kw2">grep</span> <span class="st0">&quot;Extent&quot;</span> <span class="sy0">|</span> <span class="kw2">awk</span> <span class="st_h">'{gsub(/\(/,&quot;&quot;);gsub(/\)/,&quot;&quot;);gsub(/,/,&quot;&quot;);print $2&quot; &quot;$3&quot; &quot;$5&quot; &quot;$6} '</span>
ogrinfo <span class="re5">-al</span> <span class="sy0">/</span>tmp<span class="sy0">/</span>Isiolo.gml <span class="sy0">|</span> <span class="kw2">grep</span> <span class="st0">&quot;Extent&quot;</span> <span class="sy0">|</span> <span class="kw2">awk</span> <span class="st_h">'{gsub(/\(/,&quot;&quot;);gsub(/\)/,&quot;&quot;);gsub(/,/,&quot;&quot;);print $2&quot; &quot;$3&quot; &quot;$5&quot; &quot;$6} '</span></pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT7 SECTION "Vector manipulation with OGR" [4511-] -->