
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="estimating_the_forested_area_in_european_countries">Estimating the Forested area in European Countries</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
The main objective of this exercise is to calculate the ha of tree cover for the distribution of forests in Europe. In this exercise we will create a loop for estimating the forested area of each European country. This will allow us to practice and learn some Bash shell scripting and awk commands within the grass environment. We will also automatically generate maps per country of forest cover.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Estimating the Forested area in European Countries&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;estimating_the_forested_area_in_european_countries&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:1,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1-466&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit2" id="introduction">Introduction</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
For estimating the ha of Tree cover in European countries we are going to cross the following maps.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Pan european high resolution forest/non-forest map <a href="#bibliography" title="wiki:exercise_euforest_stats ↵" class="wikilink1">Pekkarinen et al., 2008</a> rescaled to 1km resolution.<br/>
</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> A vector map of the administrative boundary of European Countries. <a href="#bibliography" title="wiki:exercise_euforest_stats ↵" class="wikilink1">(Ciesin, Ciat sources)</a> <br/>
</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
In the forest/non-forest map, the rescaled 25m to 1km resolution was carried out using a 0ha/1ha threshold for presence/absence reclassification to ensure inclusion of every hectare of forested landscape. This allows us to accurately determine areas of distribution and to estimate the suitability and distribution of European Forests excluding lakes, water basins, agricultural landscapes, and urban and industrial areas. 
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Introduction&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;introduction&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:2,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;467-1260&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit3" id="start_grass_and_create_a_new_project_mapset">Start GRASS and create a new project MAPSET</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
We open a terminal and go to the directory corresponding to our GRASS LOCATION.
</p>
<pre class="code">cd ~/ost4sem/grassdb/europe</pre>

<p>
We start grass in the existing LAEA projection grass Location
</p>
<pre class="code">grass -text  ~/ost4sem/grassdb/europe/PERMANENT</pre>

<p>
Now we can create a new mapset “EUforest” (using the -c option) where we store maps for estimating ha of P. cembro forests distribution.We also check our new working environment and mapset settings
</p>
<pre class="code">g.mapset -c mapset=EUforest
g.gisenv
g.region -p</pre>
<div class="notetip">An alternative procedure can be to start grass in the PERMANENT Mapset, import a layer using GDAL or OGR library using the option <em>Location=newlocationname</em>. This does not require copying to the PERMANENT folder. 
</div>
<p>
<br/>

</p>

<p>
Go to the default study region including the whole euro-asia
</p>
<pre class="code">g.region -d</pre>

<p>
Look at your raster and vector file availability
</p>
<pre class="code">g.list rast
g.list vect # is your current mapset visibile ?  
g.mapsets addmapset=EUforest
g.list rast
g.list vect</pre>

<p>
You should have in your MAPSET=PERMANENT the pan European forest non forest map <strong>fnfpc</strong> rescaled to 1km 
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Start GRASS and create a new project MAPSET&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;start_grass_and_create_a_new_project_mapset&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:3,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1261-2391&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit4" id="import_country_boundary_vector_map">Import country boundary vector map</h3>
<div class="level3">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">Download the World country border from the <a href="http://sedac.ciesin.columbia.edu/gpw/index.jsp" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://sedac.ciesin.columbia.edu/gpw/index.jsp" rel="nofollow noopener">Gridded Population of the World, Version 3 (GPWv3): National Boundaries data</a>.<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Unzip the file. </div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Open the shape file <strong>ntblnds.shp</strong> in qgis, select the European countries, save the selected items in a new .shp file with the coordinate re-projected from the geographic coordinates of decimal degrees based on the World Geodetic System spheroid of 1984 (WGS84) to the Lambert Azimutal Equal Area projection: <a href="http://wiki.intamap.org/index.php/INSPIRE#INSPIRE_projection" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://wiki.intamap.org/index.php/INSPIRE#INSPIRE_projection" rel="nofollow noopener">LAEA</a>.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Use the v.in.ogr module to import the .shp file to GRASS format as shown below</div>
</li>
</ol>

<p>
   v.in.ogr dsn=~/ost4sem/exercise/EUforest<em>stats/EU</em>country<em>gl</em>gpwc3/EU<em>country</em>gpwv3.shp output=EUcountry
</p>
</div>
</li>
</ul>
<div class="noteimportant">If you like the European country border shape file is already stored in the <br/>

<strong>~/ost4sem/exercise/EUforest<em>stats/EU</em>country<em>gl</em>gpwc3/</strong> folder

</div>
</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Import country boundary vector map&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;import_country_boundary_vector_map&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:4,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;2392-3385&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit5" id="set_the_study_area">Set the study area</h3>
<div class="level3">
<pre class="code">g.region -p
g.region rast=fnfpc res=1000 save=europe --o
g.region -p</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Set the study area&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;set_the_study_area&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:5,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;3386-3492&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit6" id="rasterize_the_european_country_boundary_vector_map">Rasterize the European country boundary vector map</h3>
<div class="level3">
<pre class="code">v.to.rast --o input=EUcountry output=EUcountry use=cat</pre>
<div class="notewarning">The Country borders are sometimes smaller from the forest map extent. In the final result, the estimation of forest cover per country will be slightly underestimated. 

</div>
</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Rasterize the European country boundary vector map&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;rasterize_the_european_country_boundary_vector_map&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:6,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;3493-3804&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit7" id="estimate_forest_cover_per_country">Estimate forest cover per country</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
The following operations are chained in a loop for processing the forest cover statistics country by country:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">start a loop</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">select a country X</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">select forest cover map within country X</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">create a folder for country X</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">change directory to folder country X</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">create a text file estimating the number of pixels per pixel category. Category range from 0 ha to 100 ha of forest cover per pixel</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">calculate the total sum of ha of forest cover per country</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">stop the loop</div>
</li>
</ul>
<pre class="code awk"><span class="kw1">for</span>  <span class="br0">&#40;</span><span class="br0">&#40;</span> dir=<span class="nu0">1</span> ; dir<span class="sy2">&lt;=</span><span class="nu0">46</span> ; dir <span class="sy3">++</span> <span class="br0">&#41;</span><span class="br0">&#41;</span>  ; <span class="kw1">do</span>
&nbsp;
  r.mapcalc ctry<span class="re0">$dir</span> = <span class="st0">&quot;if(EUcountry == $dir , 1 ,0 )&quot;</span>
  r.mapcalc fnfpc_ctry<span class="re0">$dir</span> = <span class="st0">&quot;if(ctry$dir == 1 , fnfpc ,0 )&quot;</span>
  mkdir <span class="sy4">~</span><span class="sy3">/</span>ost4sem<span class="sy3">/</span>exercise<span class="sy3">/</span>EUforest_stats<span class="sy3">/</span>country<span class="re0">$dir</span>
  r.stats <span class="sy3">-</span>c <span class="sy3">-</span>p <span class="sy3">-</span>l <span class="sy3">-</span>n input=fnfpc_ctry<span class="re0">$dir</span> output=<span class="sy4">~</span><span class="sy3">/</span>ost4sem<span class="sy3">/</span>exercise<span class="sy3">/</span>EUforest_stats<span class="sy3">/</span>country<span class="re0">$dir</span><span class="sy3">/</span>stat_forest_<span class="re0">$dir</span>.txt
  cd <span class="sy4">~</span><span class="sy3">/</span>ost4sem<span class="sy3">/</span>exercise<span class="sy3">/</span>EUforest_stats<span class="sy3">/</span>country<span class="re0">$dir</span><span class="sy3">/</span>
  awk '<span class="br0">&#123;</span>  <span class="kw5">print</span> <span class="re0">$1</span> , <span class="re0">$2</span> , <span class="re0">$1</span><span class="sy3">*</span><span class="re0">$2</span>  <span class="br0">&#125;</span>'  stat_forest_<span class="re0">$dir</span>.txt | awk '<span class="br0">&#123;</span> sum=sum<span class="sy3">+</span><span class="re0">$3</span>  <span class="br0">&#125;</span> <span class="kw2">END</span> <span class="br0">&#123;</span> <span class="kw5">print</span> sum <span class="br0">&#125;</span>' <span class="sy2">&gt;</span> tot_ha_ctry<span class="re0">$dir</span>.txt
&nbsp;
done</pre>

<p>
<br/>

<br/>

</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Estimate forest cover per country&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;estimate_forest_cover_per_country&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:7,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;3805-4874&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit8" id="synthetic_view_of_results">Synthetic view of results</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
Now we Run the following R commands on the GRASS environment from the bash shell terminal to create a common synthetic table.
The R scripting operate the following tasks:
</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Load the Country definition table from the country boundary DBF of the vector map.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Add two fields to the country definition table: ha of forest and km<sup>2</sup></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Start a loop per country</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Load values of ha of forest per country</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Include the loaded values in the R dataframe</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Calculate  km<sup>2</sup> of forest per country and add it to the dataframe</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> End of the country loop</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Export results into a table</div>
</li>
</ol>

<p>
<br/>

</p>
<pre class="code r">R --no-save -q  &lt;&lt; EOF
library(foreign)
cdb = read.dbf(&quot;~/ost4sem/exercise/EUforest_stats/EU_country_gl_gpwc3/EU_country_gpwv3.dbf&quot;)
cdb\$haforest = 1
cdb\$sqkmforest = 1
for(country in 1:46){
x=read.table(paste(&quot;~/ost4sem/exercise/EUforest_stats/country&quot;,country,&quot;/tot_ha_ctry&quot;,country,&quot;.txt&quot;,sep=&quot;&quot;))
cdb\$haforest[country] = x[1,1]
cdb\$sqkmforest[country] = x[1,1]/100
}
write.table(cdb,file=&quot;~/ost4sem/exercise/EUforest_stats/country_stat_results.txt&quot;)
EOF</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Synthetic view of results&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;synthetic_view_of_results&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:1,&quot;secid&quot;:8,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;4875-6000&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit9" id="bibliography">Bibliography</h3>
<div class="level3">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Center for International Earth Science Information Network (CIESIN), Columbia University; and Centro Internacional de Agricultura Tropical (CIAT). 2005. Gridded Population of the World Version 3 (GPWv3): National Boundaries. Palisades, NY: Socioeconomic Data and Applications Center (SEDAC), Columbia University. Available at <a href="http://sedac.ciesin.columbia.edu/gpw" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://sedac.ciesin.columbia.edu/gpw" rel="nofollow noopener">http://sedac.ciesin.columbia.edu/gpw</a>. (March 5 2010).</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Pekkarinen, A., Reithmaier, L. &amp; Strobl, P. (2009): Pan-European forest/non-forest mapping with Landsat ETM+ and CORINE Land Cover 2000 data. ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 64: 171-183.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Bibliography&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;bibliography&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:2,&quot;secid&quot;:9,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;6001-&quot;} -->