
<h2 class="sectionedit1" id="dr_giuseppe_amatulli">Dr. Giuseppe Amatulli</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
<br/>

<a href="https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8341-2830" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8341-2830" rel="nofollow noopener"> orcid.org/0000-0002-8341-2830</a>
<br/>

Giuseppe is a forest scientist and spatial modeller with expertize in computer science. His research activity is mainly dedicated to wildland fire with special emphasis on wildfire occurrence and pattern recognition, and wildfire risk assessment based on human and bio-physical parameters. Beside this is also interest in species distribution model, areal distribution and potential shift under climate change condition. He daily dealing with high resolution data in the context of complex and modern modelling techniques using stand-alone implementation process under Linux environment.<br/>

</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Dr. Giuseppe Amatulli&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;dr_giuseppe_amatulli&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:1,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1-708&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit2" id="education">Education</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
He obtained  the degree of MSc-Forestry on April 2000 with a
specialisation in environment management ans soil conservation. In
September 2001 he won a fellowship grant from University of Perugia
(Italy) in order to follow a MSc in Geo-Information Science at
Wageningen University. In April 2003 he defended a MSc thesis dealing
in the use of Remote Sensing and GIS to prevent forest fire. In 2005,
he held an International PhD dealing with “Non-parametric statistical
analysis to estimate fuel models and wildfire occurrence in the
framework of fire risk assessment”.<br/>

</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Education&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;education&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:2,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;709-1303&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit3" id="working_experiences">Working experiences</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
From 2005 to 2006 he had held a post-doc position at <a href="http://geografia.unizar.es/html/home.php" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://geografia.unizar.es/html/home.php" rel="nofollow noopener"> Departamento de Geografia y
ordenacion del territorio</a> at Zaragoza University (Spain). His research line was mainly dealing with
fuel model mapping, fire risk assessment and fire occurrence modelling.
From 2006 to 2011 he had held a post-doc position at the <a href="http://ies.jrc.ec.europa.eu/" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://ies.jrc.ec.europa.eu/" rel="nofollow noopener"> Institute for
Environment and Sustainability</a> (action <a href="http://forest.jrc.ec.europa.eu/" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://forest.jrc.ec.europa.eu/" rel="nofollow noopener">Forest</a> ) of the <a href="http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/jrc/index.cfm" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/jrc/index.cfm" rel="nofollow noopener"> Joint Research Centre</a>. In the
framework of the <a href="/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=wiki:personalpages:effis" class="wikilink2" title="wiki:personalpages:effis" rel="nofollow">[http://effis.jrc.ec.europa.eu | European Forest Fire Information System ]</a> he
provides scientific and technical support for development,
implementation and improvement of the Fire Weather Index applied to
the European territory. He has recently dealt with past and future
forest fire trends under potential climate change scenarios, handling
<a href="http://www.ecmwf.int/" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.ecmwf.int/" rel="nofollow noopener"> ECMWF </a> and <a href="http://prudence.dmi.dk/main.html" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://prudence.dmi.dk/main.html" rel="nofollow noopener">  PRUDENCE climate data</a>. This included modelling <a href="http://forest.jrc.ec.europa.eu/climate-change" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://forest.jrc.ec.europa.eu/climate-change" rel="nofollow noopener"> forest species distribution</a>, current, potential and future trends using <a href="http://www.worldclim.org/" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.worldclim.org/" rel="nofollow noopener"> WorldClim </a>
dataset. In the beginning of 2012 he starts a post-doc position at
<a href="http://globalmonitoring.sdstate.edu/index.php" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://globalmonitoring.sdstate.edu/index.php" rel="nofollow noopener"> GIScCE</a> under the supervision of <a href="http://globalmonitoring.sdstate.edu/faculty/roy/roy.html" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://globalmonitoring.sdstate.edu/faculty/roy/roy.html" rel="nofollow noopener">Prof. David Roy</a>. In particular he will
deal with two NASA research projects entitled “Web-enabled Landsat
data (WELD) - a consistent seamless near real time MODIS-Landsat data
fusion for the terrestrial user community”. His work consist in studying pattern and distribution of human population an the relation of urban green in the USA&#039;s cities. 
In March 2013 he started a three-year position in spatial analysis and research at Yale University, <a href="http://www.yale.edu/eeb/" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.yale.edu/eeb/" rel="nofollow noopener">  Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology </a>. His main task is to provide spatial data analysis support for ongoing research projects in biodiversity science and conservation undertaken by Yale faculty and students. He will actively work with a team of professors, postdocs and students to support geospatial biodiversity analyses including statistical analysis, development of automated procedures and code. He will provide intensive training in spatial biodiversity analysis using open source software.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Working experiences&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;working_experiences&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:3,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1304-3777&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit4" id="working_skills">Working Skills</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
Due to his background in environmental sciences topics and his ability to work with open source programming language and software (GRASS, R, GNUPLOT, AWK, BASH, QGIS, OPENEV, CDO,) in Linux environment, he is able to accomplish large data processing in cluster processing keeping always in mind the ecological aspect of the research study.<br/>
<br/>
Fluently in English and Spanish is able to cover the courses herein presented in both languages. Do not hesitate to contact him even for courses in South America or other developing countries.<br/>

</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Working Skills&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;working_skills&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:4,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;3778-4343&quot;} -->
<h3 class="sectionedit5" id="publications">Publications</h3>
<div class="level3">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=wiki:personalpages:pubgiu" class="wikilink1" title="wiki:personalpages:pubgiu">A list of publications can be found here</a></div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<br/>

<br/>

</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Publications&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;publications&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:5,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;4344-&quot;} -->