
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="languages_software_data_integrationgdal_pktools_and_r">Languages/Software data integration: GDAL, PKTOOLS and R</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
<br/>

The main aim of this page is to show how to integrate GDAL and R sw under BASH environment. <br/>

<br/>

<strong>This is a draft and you have to modify according to your needs.</strong>
<br/>

For this we create an exercise using <br/>

tif:  ~/ost4sem/exercise/basic_adv_gdalogr/fagus_sylvatica/20*43023435.tif <br/>

shp:  ~/ost4sem/exercise/basic_adv_gdalogr/fagus_sylvatica/poly_fr.shp<br/>

or<br/>

shp:  ~/Dropbox/poly_fr.shp
<br/>

The object of the exercise is to calculate the Moran&#039;s I index (using R) inside the polygons of the  poly_fr.sh shape file. <br/>

<br/>

Open the files with openev to get familiar with the geodata.<br/>

<br/>

Setting WORKING directory. 
<br/>

</p>
<pre class="code"> DIR=~/ost4sem/moran/</pre>

<p>
<br/>

Copy referenced dataset in the working directory.<br/>

<br/>

</p>
<pre class="code bash"><span class="kw2">mkdir</span> <span class="re1">$DIR</span>
<span class="kw3">cd</span> <span class="re1">$DIR</span>
<span class="kw2">cp</span> ~<span class="sy0">/</span>ost4sem<span class="sy0">/</span>exercise<span class="sy0">/</span>basic_adv_gdalogr<span class="sy0">/</span>fagus_sylvatica<span class="sy0">/</span><span class="nu0">20</span><span class="sy0">*</span>_TSSP<span class="sy0">*</span><span class="nu0">43023435</span>.tif  <span class="re1">$DIR</span><span class="sy0">/</span>
<span class="kw2">cp</span> ~<span class="sy0">/</span>ost4sem<span class="sy0">/</span>exercise<span class="sy0">/</span>basic_adv_gdalogr<span class="sy0">/</span>fagus_sylvatica<span class="sy0">/</span>poly_fr.<span class="sy0">*</span>    <span class="re1">$DIR</span><span class="sy0">/</span> </pre>

</div>

<h4 id="split_the_shapefile">Split the shapefile</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Create two independent shapefile, one for each polygon, using ogr2ogr
</p>
<pre class="code"> ogr2ogr .......  </pre>

</div>

<h4 id="crop_the_tif_based_on_the_shapefile">Crop the tif based on the  shapefile</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Crop the tif and set the out part to -1. Consider later how the -1 is read in R. You do not have compute the Moran&#039;s I considering the -1<br/>

</p>
<pre class="code bash"><span class="kw1">for</span> <span class="kw2">file</span> <span class="kw1">in</span> ~<span class="sy0">/</span>ost4sem<span class="sy0">/</span>moran<span class="sy0">/</span><span class="nu0">20</span><span class="sy0">*</span><span class="nu0">43023435</span>.tif ; <span class="kw1">do</span> 
   pkcrop <span class="re5">-e</span>  .....using shapefile
   pkcrop <span class="re5">-e</span>  .....using the other shapefile 
<span class="kw1">done</span></pre>

</div>

<h4 id="calculate_moran_s_i_in_r">Calculate Moran&#039;s I in R</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Create a loop that calculates Moran&#039;s I (<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moran" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moran" rel="nofollow noopener">http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moran</a>&#039;s_I) to each tif. 
</p>
<pre class="code bash">&nbsp;
<span class="kw1">for</span> file_crop <span class="kw1">in</span>  ..........  ; <span class="kw1">do</span>  
&nbsp;
<span class="kw3">export</span> <span class="re2">file_crop</span>=<span class="re1">$file_crop</span>
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
<span class="co0"># start R and import bash variables (the file name)</span>
&nbsp;
R <span class="re5">--vanilla</span> <span class="re5">-q</span> <span class="co2">&lt;&lt;EOF
&nbsp;
file_crop = Sys.getenv('file_crop')
library(raster)
rasterOptions(tmpdir=&quot;/tmp&quot;)
&nbsp;
# load grass raster data 
&nbsp;
rastD = raster( paste (&quot;/home/user/ost4sem/moran/&quot;,file_crop,sep=&quot;&quot;))
&nbsp;
# calculate Moran's I
M_text = Moran(rastD)
&nbsp;
#Write the results to a simple text file
write.table (M_text[1] ,paste(&quot;moran_&quot;,file_crop,&quot;.txt&quot;,sep=&quot;&quot; )  ,row.names = F , col.names = F)
EOF</span>
&nbsp;
<span class="kw1">done</span></pre>

</div>

<h4 id="look_at_these_files_which_contain_moran_s_i_for_each_separate_raster">Look at these files (which contain Moran&#039;s I for each separate raster)</h4>
<div class="level4">
<pre class="code"> cat $DIR/moran_*_TSSP_IP-*_43023435_crop.txt </pre>

</div>

<h4 id="extract_moran_s_i_average_using_awk">Extract Moran&#039;s I average using AWK</h4>
<div class="level4">
<pre class="code"> cat $DIR/moran_*_TSSP_IP-*_43023435_crop.txt   | awk &#039;{ sum=sum+$1 } END { print sum/NR}  &#039; </pre>

</div>

<h4 id="exercise">Exercise</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Create a unique script and try to run with 
</p>
<pre class="code"> bash ~/ost4sem/moran/moran_calc.sh</pre>

<p>
Solution
</p>
<pre class="code"> wget http://www.spatial-ecology.net//ost4sem/exercise/basic_adv_gdalogr/moran_calc.sh</pre>

</div>
