
<h2 class="sectionedit1" id="peer_reviewed_papers">Peer reviewed papers</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <strong>P. Kempeneers</strong>, S. De Backer, W. Debruyn, P. Coppin, and P. Scheunders. Generic wavelet-based hyperspectral classification applied to vegetation stress detection. Geoscience and Remote Sensing, IEEE Transactions on, 43(3):610–614, 2005.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> S. De Backer, <strong>P. Kempeneers</strong>, W. Debruyn, and P. Scheunders. A band selection technique for spectral classification. Geoscience and Remote Sensing Letters, IEEE, 2(3):319–323, 2005.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> B. Deronde, <strong>P. Kempeneers</strong>, and RM Forster. Imaging spectroscopy as a tool to study sediment characteristics on a tidal sandbank in the Westerschelde. Estuarine, Coastal and Shelf Science, 69(3-4):580–590, 2006.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> S. Delalieux, J.A.N. Aardt, P.J. Zarco-Tejada, <strong>P. Kempeneers</strong>, W.W. Verstraeten, P. Coppin, et al. Development of robust hyperspectral indices for the detection of deviations of normal plant state. EARSeL eProceedings, 6:82–93, 2007.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> B. Deronde, <strong>P. Kempeneers</strong>, R. Houhuys, J.P. Henriet, and V. Van Lancker. Sediment facies classification of a sandy shoreline by means of airborne imaging spectroscopy. International Journal of Remote Sensing, 29(15):4463–4477, 2008.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <strong>P. Kempeneers</strong>, P.J. Zarco-Tejada, PRJ North, S. de Backer, S. Delalieux, G. Sepulcre-Canto, F. Morales, JAN Van Aardt, R. Sagardoy, P. Coppin, et al. Model inversion for chlorophyll estimation in open canopies from hyperspectral imagery. International journal of remote sensing, 29(17-18):5093–5111, 2008.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <strong>P. Kempeneers</strong>, B. Deronde, S. Provoost, and R. Houthuys. Synergy of airborne digital camera and lidar data to map coastal dune vegetation. Journal of Coastal Research, pages 73–82, 2009.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> J.C.W. Chan, J. Ma, <strong>P. Kempeneers</strong>, and F. Canters. Superresolution enhancement of hyperspectral CHRIS/Proba images with a thin-plate spline nonrigid transform model. Geoscience and Remote Sensing, IEEE Transactions on, 48(6):2569–2579, 2010.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <strong>P. Kempeneers</strong>, F. Sedano, L. Seebach, P. Strobl, and J. San-Miguel-Ayanz. Data Fusion of Different Spatial Resolution Remote Sensing Images Applied to Forest-Type Mapping. Geoscience and Remote Sensing, IEEE Transactions on, (99):1–10, 2011.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> F. Sedano, <strong>P. Kempeneers</strong>, P. Strobl, D. McInerney, and J. San Miguel. Increasing Spatial Detail of Burned Scar Maps Using IRS-AWiFS Data for Mediterranean Europe. Remote Sensing, 4(3):726–744, 2012.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> F. Sedano, <strong>P. Kempeneers</strong>, P. Strobl, J. Kucera, P. Vogt, L. Seebach, and J. San-Miguel-Ayanz. A cloud mask methodology for high resolution remote sensing data combining information from high and medium resolution optical sensors. ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, 66:588–596, 2011.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> F. Sedano, <strong>P. Kempeneers</strong>, J.S. Miguel, P. Strobl, and P. Vogt. Towards a pan-European burnt scar mapping methodology based on single date medium resolution optical remote sensing data. International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation, 2011.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <strong>P. Kempeneers</strong>, F. Sedano, P. Strobl, D.O. McInerney, and J. San-Miguel-Ayanz. Increasing Robustness of Postclassification Change Detection Using Time Series of Land Cover Maps. Geoscience and Remote Sensing, IEEE Transactions on, (99):1–13, 2012.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <strong>P. Kempeneers</strong>, D. McInerney, F. Sedano, J. Gallego, S. Kay, K. Korhonen, and J. San-Miguel. Accuracy assessment of the FMAP2006 pan-European forest map using NFI field plot data. Journal of Selected Topics in Applied Earth Observations and Remote Sensing, IEEE, In Press.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <strong>P. Kempeneers</strong>, L. Bertels, Kristin Vreys, and Jan Biesemans. Propagation of errors in forestry applications due to DEM processing of hyperspectral images. Geoscience and Remote Sensing Letters, IEEE, In Review.</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> D. McInerney, <strong>P. Kempeneers</strong>, H. Eva, and J. San Miguel. An enhanced method of forest mapping using Support Vector Machines and Neural Network classifiers. European Journal of Forest Research, In Preparation.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Peer reviewed papers" [1-3975] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="book_chapters">Book chapters</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li">J. San-Miguel-Ayanz, E. Schulte, G. Schmuck, A. Camia, P. Strobl, G. Liberta, C. Giovando, R. Boca, F. Sedano, <strong>P. Kempeneers</strong>, D. McInerney, C. Withmore, S. Santos de Oliveira, M. Rodrigues, T. Durrant, P. Corti, F. Oehler, L. Vilar,  G. Amatulli (2012). <a href="http://www.intechopen.com/books/approaches-to-managing-disaster-assessing-hazards-emergencies-and-disaster-impacts/comprehensive-monitoring-of-wildfires-in-europe-the-european-forest-fire-information-system-effis-" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.intechopen.com/books/approaches-to-managing-disaster-assessing-hazards-emergencies-and-disaster-impacts/comprehensive-monitoring-of-wildfires-in-europe-the-european-forest-fire-information-system-effis-" rel="nofollow noopener"> Comprehensive Monitoring of Wildfires in Europe: The European Forest Fire Information System (EFFIS)</a>.  Approaches to Managing Disaster - Assessing Hazards, Emergencies and Disaster Impacts. Tiefenbacher J. (Editor)   InTech. pp 87-108<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> </div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> J. San-Miguel-Ayanz, D. McInerney, F. Sedano, P. Strobl, <strong>P. Kempeneers</strong>, A. Pekkarinen, L. Seebach, Global Forest Monitoring from Earth Observation - Use of Wall-to-Wall Moderate and High-Resolution Satellite Imagery to Monitor Forest Cover Across Europe, Ed. E. Chuvieco (Editor),  Taylor &amp; Francis Group /CRC Press, In press</div>
</li>
</ul>
</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Book chapters" [3976-] -->