
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="short_lectures_and_presentations">Short lectures and presentations</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
<br/>

<br/>

</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Short lectures and presentations" [1-53] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="introduction_to_the_training">Introduction to the training</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Introducing the tutors, objectives, topics and schedule of the training. Getting to know each other.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/lecture/introduction.pdf" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/lecture/introduction.pdf" rel="nofollow noopener">download</a> or open the presentation from your local VM @: ~/ost4sem/lecture/introduction.pdf<br/>
</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Introduction to the training" [54-363] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="introduction_to_linux_and_open_source_tools">Introduction to Linux and Open Source tools</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Linux     environment, why and what to use; Why to use Unix/Linux and command line for solving complex research questions.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/lecture/hands_on_Linux_OS.pdf" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/lecture/hands_on_Linux_OS.pdf" rel="nofollow noopener"> download</a> or open the presentation from your local VM @: ~/ost4sem/lecture/hands<em>on</em>Linux_<abbr title="Operating System">OS</abbr>.pdf<br/>
</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Introduction to Linux and Open Source tools" [364-724] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="perform_gis_and_remote_sensing_analysis_under_linux_os">Perform GIS and Remote Sensing analysis under Linux OS</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"><a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/lecture/First_step4GIS-RS_analysis_in_linux.pdf" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/lecture/First_step4GIS-RS_analysis_in_linux.pdf" rel="nofollow noopener"> download </a>.**<br/>

Giuseppe Amatulli, Ph.D.; Program in Spatial Biodiveristy Science and Conservation (SBSC) - Yale University<br/>

RSUG meeting - Monday 4 November from 5 to 6pm in ESC 110. Yale University <br/>

<br/>

In the last decades there has been an explosion of available data for environmental spatio-temporal research. This “big data” allows us to address a number of old and new important research questions with unprecedented rigor and generality. Beside this, reproducible research requires code that is easily published without license constraints and complex work-flows that are able to integrate different data analysis methods. Open-source software under Linux <abbr title="Operating System">OS</abbr> provides a valid and powerful alternative which can be used in desktop PCs, laptops and also in remote servers, such as the one at Yale HPC.<br/>
</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
During the seminar I will show how to install a Linux-like Virtual Machine (LVM) in your lap-top (so bring your lap-top) and how to use the <a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net" rel="nofollow noopener">http://www.spatial-ecology.net</a> platform to become a self-taught programmer. We will work with the most powerful GIS and RS libraries such as GDAL/OGR and their related applications.<br/>

</p>

<p>
The LVM is an ad-hoc customization of the Ubuntu distribution with Remote Sensing, GIS and Statistics open source software; with sample geo-data, scripts, and example exercises directly linked with the material stored at <a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net" rel="nofollow noopener">http://www.spatial-ecology.net</a>. All the materials, data and software are under the Common Public License agreement so feel free to redistribute or install in other PCs.<br/>

</p>

<p>
In order to speed up the LVM installation process please follow the <a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=wiki:installvm" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=wiki:installvm" rel="nofollow noopener">   “Access spatial-ecology Ubuntu from a Virtual Machine “ procedure</a>.<br/>

</p>

<p>
This procedure does not install a Linux beside Windows or MacOS, but inside Windows or MacOS. In other words your main <abbr title="Operating System">OS</abbr> will be remain Windows or MacOS, and you will boot the PC as before. There is not any risk for your data or for your main <abbr title="Operating System">OS</abbr>.<br/>

<br/>

</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Perform GIS and Remote Sensing analysis under Linux OS" [725-2893] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit5" id="how_to_take_part_in_this_training">How to take part in this training</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
General presentation of the training working environment: Virtual machine, Ubuntu <abbr title="Operating System">OS</abbr> and the training wiki infrastructure.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/lecture//hands_on_ost4sem.pdf" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/lecture//hands_on_ost4sem.pdf" rel="nofollow noopener">download</a> or open the presentation from your local VM @:  ~/ost4sem/lecture/hands<em>on</em>ost4sem.pdf<br/>
</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT5 SECTION "How to take part in this training" [2894-3240] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit6" id="introduction_to_spatial_ecological_modeling">Introduction to spatial ecological modeling</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Defining and discussing ecological models and spatial ecology. Presentation of various applications, and examples of models.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"><a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/lecture/sp_eco_model_intro.pdf" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/lecture/sp_eco_model_intro.pdf" rel="nofollow noopener">download</a> or open the presentation from your local VM @: ~/ost4sem/lecture/sp<em>eco</em>model_intro.pdf <br/>

<br/>
</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT6 SECTION "Introduction to spatial ecological modeling" [3241-3604] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit7" id="case_studyforest_suitability_and_climate_change">Case study: Forest Suitability and Climate Change</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
In this case study we process data for Forest Habitat Suitability Modeling and Climate Change projections.<br/>

Presenting the theory and basic assumptions in niche modeling and potential habitat suitability mapping. The Random Forest machine learning ensemble model and the technical procedure for plotting current and future habitat distribution maps.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"><a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/lecture/jrc24feb_2010.pdf" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/lecture/jrc24feb_2010.pdf" rel="nofollow noopener">download</a> or open the presentation from your local VM @:  ~/ost4sem/lecture/jrc24feb_2010.pdf<br/>

<br/>
</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT7 SECTION "Case study: Forest Suitability and Climate Change" [3605-4188] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit8" id="case_studyforest_fire_and_climate_change">Case study: Forest fire and climate change</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
In this case study we process data for projecting future burnt area in the EU-Mediterranean countries under IPCC SRES A2/B2 climate change scenarios.<br/>

Presenting the statistical modeling of historical (1985-2004) monthly burnt areas in European Mediterranean countries, as a function of monthly weather data and derived fire danger indexes, and how to analyse potential trends under present and future climate conditions.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/lecture/fire_climate_change.pdf" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/lecture/fire_climate_change.pdf" rel="nofollow noopener">download</a> or open the presentation from your local VM @:  ~/ost4sem/lecture/fire<em>climate</em>change.pdf<br/>

<br/>
</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT8 SECTION "Case study: Forest fire and climate change" [4189-4850] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit9" id="case_studynatural_vegetation_and_climate_change">Case study: Natural vegetation and climate change</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
In this case study we modelling and map the Natural Forest Distribution in Italy and predict habitat suitability changes for the year 2080 under IPCC SRES A2a scenario. We use the randomforest machine learning algorithm in R and prepare data in bash and GRASS.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/lecture/mod_natveg_randomforest.pdf" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/lecture/mod_natveg_randomforest.pdf" rel="nofollow noopener">download</a> <br/>

<br/>
</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT9 SECTION "Case study: Natural vegetation and climate change" [4851-5272] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit10" id="introduction_to_unix_linux">Introduction to UNIX LINUX</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
General presentation of Unix Linux and the Bash shell programming environment.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/lecture/unixlinux.pdf" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/lecture/unixlinux.pdf" rel="nofollow noopener">download</a> or open the presentation from your local VM @:  ~/ost4sem/lecture/unixlinux.pdf<br/>
</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT10 SECTION "Introduction to UNIX LINUX" [5273-5554] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit11" id="introduction_to_awk">Introduction to AWK</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
General presentation of AWK programming language for processing text-based data.
NOT AVAILABLE  * <a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/lecture/awk.pdf" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/lecture/awk.pdf" rel="nofollow noopener">download</a> or open the presentation from your local VM @:  ~/ost4sem/lecture/awk.pdf<br/>

<br/>

</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT11 SECTION "Introduction to AWK" [5555-5832] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit12" id="introduction_to_gdal_ogr">Introduction to GDAL OGR</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
General presentation of GDAL and OGR: Geospatial Data Abstraction Libraries.
NOT AVAILABLE  * <a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/lecture/gdal.pdf" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/lecture/gdal.pdf" rel="nofollow noopener">download</a> or open the presentation from your local VM @:  ~/ost4sem/lecture/gdal.pdf<br/>

<br/>

</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT12 SECTION "Introduction to GDAL OGR" [5833-6114] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit13" id="introduction_to_r">Introduction to R</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
General presentation of the R language and environment for statistical computing and graphics.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/lecture/r_intro.pdf" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/lecture/r_intro.pdf" rel="nofollow noopener">Download</a> or open the presentation from your local VM @:  ~/ost4sem/lecture/r<em>intro.pdf<br/>

<br/>

===== Introduction to GRASS =====
General presentation of GRASS: Geographical Resources Analysis Support System.
  * <a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/lecture/grass_intro.pdf" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/lecture/grass_intro.pdf" rel="nofollow noopener">Download</a> or open the presentation from your local VM @:  ~/ost4sem/lecture/grass</em>intro.pdf<br/>
</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT13 SECTION "Introduction to R" [6115-6679] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit14" id="introduction_to_quantum_gis">Introduction to Quantum Gis</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
General presentation of Qgis: a user friendly Open Source Geographic Information System licensed under the GNU General Public License.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/lecture/qgis_intro.pdf" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/lecture/qgis_intro.pdf" rel="nofollow noopener">Download</a> or open the presentation from your local VM @:  ~/ost4sem/lecture/qgis_intro.pdf<br/>
</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<br/>

</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT14 SECTION "Introduction to Quantum Gis" [6680-7019] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit15" id="introduction_to_gnuplot">Introduction to Gnuplot</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
General presentation of Gnuplot: a portable command-line driven graphing utility, for visualising mathematical functions and data interactively.
NOT AVAILABLE  * <a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/lecture/gnuplot.pdf" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/lecture/gnuplot.pdf" rel="nofollow noopener">Download</a> or open the presentation from your local VM @:  ~/ost4sem/lecture/gnuplot.pdf<br/>

<br/>

</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT15 SECTION "Introduction to Gnuplot" [7020-7374] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit16" id="more_image_processing">More Image processing</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
<a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/lecture/PieterDaniel_lecture.pdf" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/lecture/PieterDaniel_lecture.pdf" rel="nofollow noopener"> A presentation </a> and hands on guide to:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> geo data processing using QGIS gui</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> introduction to spatialite</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Ogr simple features library</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Satellite Image classification</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Advanced geoprocessing</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT16 SECTION "More Image processing" [7375-] -->