
<h2 class="sectionedit1" id="name">NAME</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
<strong>ost4sem<em>zonal</em>stats.py</strong>
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;NAME&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;name&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:1,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1-45&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="description">DESCRIPTION</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
This command line zonal statistic calculator is built for gdal supported files.<br/>

It calculates mean min max and stdev values of a continuos raster (e.g. dem) based on a different categorized raster.<br/>

The output is a txt file with the statistical value of each category.<br/>

</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;DESCRIPTION&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;description&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:2,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;46-344&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="synopsis">SYNOPSIS</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
ost4sem<em>zonal</em>stats.py  [-category<em>no</em>data nodata<em>value]  [-raster</em>no<em>data nodata</em>value]<br/>

                                       [-mean] [-mode] [-median] [-stddev] [-min] [-max] [-sum]<br/>

                                       src<em>category   src</em>raster   dst_file<br/>

</p>

<p>
-category<em>no</em>data nodata<em>value : no data value in the category raster. <br/>

                                            No data value can be identify by the user or directly take in tif<br/>

                                            but the “NoData Value=?” must be present in the tif.
<br/>

-raster</em>no<em>data nodata</em>value : no data value in the continuos raster. <br/>

                                           No data value can be identify by the user or directly take in tif<br/>

                                           but the “NoData Value=?” must be present in the tif.<br/>

src<em>category : category raster ; layer used to group values for computing statisctics <br/>

src</em>raster :   continues raster ; layer used to perform statisctics <br/>

dst<em>file : destination file in txt format.
<br/>

<br/>

[OPTIONS]<br/>

<br/>

If no option are reported the category value and counted pixel for each category will be reported in the destination file.<br/>

<br/>

-max : calculate maximum value of the continues raster in each grouped category <br/>

-min : calculate min value of the continues raster in each grouped category <br/>

-stddev : calculate <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_deviation" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_deviation" rel="nofollow noopener"> standard deviation  </a>  value of the continues raster in each grouped category <br/>

-mean  : calculate mean value of the continues raster in each grouped category <br/>



===== DOWNLOAD =====
Download python script: <a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/geo_tools/ost4sem_zonal_stats.py.zip" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/geo_tools/ost4sem_zonal_stats.py.zip" rel="nofollow noopener"> ost4sem_zonal_stats.py.zip  </a><br/>

Download python script: <a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/geo_tools/ost4sem_zonal_stats.py" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/geo_tools/ost4sem_zonal_stats.py" rel="nofollow noopener"> ost4sem_zonal_stats.py  </a><br/>

Download python script: <a href="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/geo_tools/ost4sem_zonal_stats.pdf" class="urlextern" target="blanc" title="http://www.spatial-ecology.net/ost4sem/geo_tools/ost4sem_zonal_stats.pdf" rel="nofollow noopener"> ost4sem_zonal_stats.pdf  </a><br/>


===== EXAMPLE =====

&lt;code bash&gt;
mv ./ost4sem</em>zonal<em>stats.py ./ost4sem</em>zonal<em>stats.py.zip
chmod 777 ./ost4sem</em>zonal<em>stats.py
./ost4sem</em>zonal_stats.py -max -min -stddev -mean   category.tif dem.tif stat.txt
&lt;/code&gt;
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;SYNOPSIS&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;synopsis&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:3,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;345-&quot;} -->