
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="registration_fees">Registration Fees</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Registration is on <em>a first come, first served</em> basis and it will be closed when it reaches 25 participants. Therefore, we encourage participant to register <abbr title="As soon as possible">ASAP</abbr>. A waiting list will be establish in case of over-passing the 25 participants.<br/>

<br/>

Students from University of California - Santa Barbara  benefit of 20 places reserved as compensation for hosting the event. <strong>We will holding them until the April 30th</strong>, afterwards the remain places will open to no-UCSB affiliates.<br/>

<br/>

The course Registration Fee Includes: 42 hours class training, student supervision, course auditing, course material, lectures, sample data and a Linux Virtual Machine with all the software installed.<br/>

Participants are expected to take care of their own accommodation, meals, and travel expenses to and from UCSB.
</p>

<p>
In order to register, all participants have to:<br/>

<br/>

1) <em><strong>Keep in touch with giuseppe.amatulli@yale.edu</strong></em> expressing your interest in the course and your affiliation.<br/>

</p>

<p>
2) <em><strong>Pay the registration fee</strong></em> of $450 using your pay-pal account by selecting 
→ “Pay or send money” → “Send money to friends or family” (It’s free in the U.S. when you use bank or balance) using giuseppe.amatulli@yale.edu e-mail account. <strong>DO NOT USE</strong> “Pay for goods or services” option.<br/>

<br/>

<br/>

3) <em><strong> fill-in the  <a href="/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=wiki:sbarbregist_quest" class="wikilink1" title="wiki:sbarbregist_quest"> following questionnaire</a> </strong></em>
<br/>

</p>

<p>
<em><strong><em class="u">You will be considered registered</em> ONCE the registration fee has been paid through pay-pal and the questionnaire has been filled </strong></em>
<br/>

</p>

</div>

<h4 id="refund_policy">Refund policy</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Written notification of registration cancellation must be e-mailed to giuseppe.amatulli@yale.edu. If registration cancellation is received by June 1st, 2015, registrant will receive a refund of registration fee less a $100 processing fee. We will retain $350 for cancellation notice submitted after June 1st, 2015 unless candidates from waiting list accept to replace withdrawal candidates.
<br/>

<br/>

<a href="/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=wiki:reglistsbarb" class="wikilink1" title="wiki:reglistsbarb"> Registration List &amp; Registration Waiting List</a><br/>

<a href="/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=wiki:sbarbregist_quest" class="wikilink1" title="wiki:sbarbregist_quest"> following questionnaire</a>
</p>

</div>
