
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="description">DESCRIPTION</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Command line to intersect two shape files.<br/>

The results is a new shape file storing only polygons that intersect each other.<br/>

The new shape file can overwrite an existing shape file.<br/>

The script use the Qgis libraries which depends on GEOS libraries.<br/>

Pay attention to have the GEOS libraries installed ( geos-config –version ) and setting in the<br/>

script the right QgsApplication.setPrefixPath(“/path”, True) where qgis is installed.<br/>

The script can be considered and extension of the ogr2ogr for the missing intersection flag.<br/>

<br/>

Download the file intersect.py<br/>

</p>
<pre class="code">  chmod 777 intersect.py
  sudo mv intersect.py /usr/local/bin/</pre>
<pre class="code">  intersect.py src_shapefile1  src_shapefile2 dst_shapefile</pre>

<p>
<br/>

</p>
<dl class="code">
<dt><a href="/dokuwiki/doku.php?do=export_code&amp;id=wiki:intersect-python&amp;codeblock=0" title="Download Snippet" class="mediafile mf_py">intersect.py</a></dt>
<dd><pre class="code bash"><span class="co0">#!/usr/bin/python</span>
&nbsp;
<span class="co0"># version 1  </span>
<span class="co0"># August 20 2013</span>
<span class="co0">#******************************************************************************</span>
<span class="co0">#  intersect.py</span>
<span class="co0">#</span>
<span class="co0">#  Repository: www.spatial-eclogy.net</span>
<span class="co0">#  Purpose:  Command line to intersect two shape files.</span>
<span class="co0">#            The results is a new shape file storing only polygons that intersect each other.</span>
<span class="co0">#            The new shape file can overwrite an existing shape file. </span>
<span class="co0">#            The script use the Qgis libraries which depends on GEOS libraries.</span>
<span class="co0">#            Pay attention to have the GEOS libraries installed ( geos-config --version ) and setting in the</span>
<span class="co0">#            script the right QgsApplication.setPrefixPath(&quot;/path&quot;, True) where qgis is installed.</span>
<span class="co0">#            The script can be considered and extension of the ogr2ogr for the missing intersection flag.</span>
<span class="co0">#  Author:   Giuseppe Amatulli, giuseppe.amatulli@gmail.com</span>
<span class="co0">#******************************************************************************</span>
<span class="co0">#  Copyright (c) 2013, Giuseppe Amatulli, giuseppe.amatulli@gmail.com</span>
<span class="co0"># </span>
<span class="co0">#  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a</span>
<span class="co0">#  copy of this software and associated documentation files (the &quot;Software&quot;),</span>
<span class="co0">#  to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation</span>
<span class="co0">#  the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,</span>
<span class="co0">#  and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the</span>
<span class="co0">#  Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:</span>
<span class="co0"># </span>
<span class="co0">#  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included</span>
<span class="co0">#  in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.</span>
<span class="co0"># </span>
<span class="co0">#  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED &quot;AS IS&quot;, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS</span>
<span class="co0">#  OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,</span>
<span class="co0">#  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL</span>
<span class="co0">#  THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER</span>
<span class="co0">#  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING</span>
<span class="co0">#  FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER</span>
<span class="co0">#  DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.</span>
<span class="co0">#******************************************************************************</span>
<span class="co0"># intersect.py src_shapefile1  src_shapefile2 dst_shapefile</span>
<span class="co0">################################################################</span>
&nbsp;
import sys
import os
import os.path
from qgis import <span class="sy0">*</span>
from qgis.core import <span class="sy0">*</span>
QgsApplication.setPrefixPath<span class="br0">&#40;</span><span class="st0">&quot;/usr&quot;</span>, True<span class="br0">&#41;</span>  <span class="co0"># in Ubuntu 12.04 repository installation /usr/bin/qgis </span>
QgsApplication.initQgis<span class="br0">&#40;</span><span class="br0">&#41;</span>
from qgis.analysis import <span class="sy0">*</span> 
&nbsp;
def Usage<span class="br0">&#40;</span><span class="br0">&#41;</span>:
    print<span class="br0">&#40;</span><span class="st_h">'Usage: intersect.py src_shapefile1  src_shapefile2 dst_shapefile'</span><span class="br0">&#41;</span>
    sys.exit<span class="br0">&#40;</span> <span class="nu0">1</span> <span class="br0">&#41;</span>
&nbsp;
src_shpA = None
src_shpB = None
dst_shp  = None
&nbsp;
<span class="kw1">if</span> len<span class="br0">&#40;</span>sys.argv<span class="br0">&#41;</span> <span class="sy0">!</span>= <span class="nu0">4</span>:
    sys.exit<span class="br0">&#40;</span>Usage<span class="br0">&#40;</span><span class="br0">&#41;</span><span class="br0">&#41;</span>
&nbsp;
i = <span class="nu0">1</span>
<span class="kw1">while</span> i <span class="sy0">&lt;</span> len<span class="br0">&#40;</span>sys.argv<span class="br0">&#41;</span>:
    arg = sys.argv<span class="br0">&#91;</span>i<span class="br0">&#93;</span>
    <span class="kw1">if</span> src_shpA is None:
        src_shpA = arg
    <span class="kw1">elif</span> src_shpB is None:
        src_shpB = arg
    <span class="kw1">elif</span> dst_shp is None:
        dst_shp = arg
    else:
        Usage<span class="br0">&#40;</span><span class="br0">&#41;</span>
    i = i + <span class="nu0">1</span>
&nbsp;
<span class="kw1">if</span>  src_shpA is None:
    Usage<span class="br0">&#40;</span><span class="br0">&#41;</span>
&nbsp;
<span class="kw1">if</span>  src_shpA is None:
    Usage<span class="br0">&#40;</span><span class="br0">&#41;</span>
&nbsp;
<span class="kw1">if</span>  dst_shp is None:
    Usage<span class="br0">&#40;</span><span class="br0">&#41;</span>
&nbsp;
shpA = QgsVectorLayer<span class="br0">&#40;</span>  src_shpA  , <span class="st0">&quot;layerA&quot;</span>, <span class="st0">&quot;ogr&quot;</span><span class="br0">&#41;</span>
<span class="kw1">if</span> not shpA.isValid<span class="br0">&#40;</span><span class="br0">&#41;</span>:
    print <span class="st0">&quot;Layer failed to load! Check the&quot;</span>,src_shpA, <span class="st0">&quot;path&quot;</span> 
    sys.exit<span class="br0">&#40;</span><span class="nu0">1</span><span class="br0">&#41;</span>
&nbsp;
shpB = QgsVectorLayer<span class="br0">&#40;</span> src_shpB  , <span class="st0">&quot;layerB&quot;</span>, <span class="st0">&quot;ogr&quot;</span><span class="br0">&#41;</span>
<span class="kw1">if</span> not shpB.isValid<span class="br0">&#40;</span><span class="br0">&#41;</span>:
    print <span class="st0">&quot;Layer failed to load! Check the&quot;</span>,src_shpB,<span class="st0">&quot;path&quot;</span> 
    sys.exit<span class="br0">&#40;</span><span class="nu0">1</span><span class="br0">&#41;</span>
&nbsp;
print <span class="st0">&quot;Intersecting&quot;</span>,src_shpA,<span class="st0">&quot;with&quot;</span>,src_shpB,<span class="st0">&quot;to create&quot;</span>,dst_shp
QgsOverlayAnalyzer<span class="br0">&#40;</span><span class="br0">&#41;</span>.intersection<span class="br0">&#40;</span> shpA , shpB  , dst_shp <span class="br0">&#41;</span>
QgsApplication.exitQgis<span class="br0">&#40;</span><span class="br0">&#41;</span></pre>
</dd></dl>

</div>
